may 	arise 	from 	small 	pressure 	fluctuations 	in 	the 	electrode 	regions 	due 	to
occasional 	shifting 	of 	the 	arc 	termination 	points. 	If 	they 	are 	present, 	these
instabilities 	are 	manifested 	by 	a 	varying 	arc 	length. 	A 	polycarbonate 	plastic
extension 	tube 	is 	attached 	to 	the 	end 	piece 	on 	the 	vacuum 	side 	of 	the 	arc 	for
the 	purposes 	of 	insulating 	the 	end 	piece 	from 	the 	vacuum 	system. 	It 	also
allows 	remote 	mounting 	of 	a 	UV 	quality 	MgFp 	window 	with 	shutter, 	which 	doubles
as 	an 	observing 	port 	for 	adjustment 	of 	the 	anodes. 	The 	window 	is 	located
17 	cm 	from 	the 	arc 	because 	of 	possible 	degrading 	effects 	caused 	by 	heat 	and
intense 	UV 	irradiation. 	Also, 	a 	gas 	input 	port 	directs 	a 	flow 	of 	gas 	onto 	the
window 	and 	prevents 	it 	from 	collecting 	a 	layer 	of 	attenuating 	tungsten 	dust
which 	is 	evaporated 	from 	the 	anodes 	at 	high 	power 	levels. 	The 	Suprasil 	window
on 	the 	air 	side 	of 	the 	arc 	does 	not 	require 	similar 	precautions 	since 	the
cathodes 	do 	not 	heat 	up 	as 	much 	as 	the 	anodes 	and 	since 	the 	window 	trans-
mission, 	which 	is 	needed 	for 	calibrations 	in 	the 	near 	UV 	and 	visible, 	can 	be
conveniently 	measured 	by 	simple 	removal 	during 	arc 	operation.
As 	can 	be 	seen 	in 	Fig. 	4, 	the 	electrodes, 	especially 	insulated 	and 	sealed
by 	o-rings, 	are 	positioned 	as 	close 	as 	possible 	(about 	0.5 	mm) 	to 	the 	arc
plates 	in 	such 	a 	way 	as 	to 	form 	an 	extension 	of 	the 	channel. 	Four 	electrodes
at 	each 	end 	in 	a 	cross 	arrangement 	are 	used 	tn 	order 	to 	subdivide 	the 	heat
load 	and 	to 	minimize 	arc 	asymmetries 	in 	the 	end 	zones 	near 	the 	arc 	termination
points. 	The 	electrode 	cooling 	is 	provided 	by 	soldering 	the 	48 	mm 	long, 	10 	mm
diameter 	tungsten 	rods 	which 	serve 	as 	the 	electrode 	tips 	to 	water-cooled
copper 	tubes.
The 	arc 	plates 	themselves 	are 	of 	fairly 	complex 	design. 	Several 	varia-
tions, 	designed 	principally 	to 	reduce 	machining 	difficulties 	and 	increase 	the
economy 	of 	production, 	have 	been 	described 	in 	the 	1 	iterature.^^ 	»12 	Basically,
the 	problem 	is 	to 	cool 	the 	walls 	efficiently 	and 	to 	avoid 	the 	formation 	of
vapor 	bubbles 	and 	consequent 	thermal 	isolation 	of 	the 	heated 	channel 	walls
which 	comes 	about 	when 	there 	is 	poor 	or 	turbulent 	contact 	between 	the 	channel
wall 	and 	the 	flowing 	water. 	The 	particular 	method 	of 	fabrication 	for 	our
model^^^ 	is 	illustrated 	in 	Fig. 	9. 	By 	inserting 	the 	split 	brass 	plates 	labeled
B 	in 	Fig. 	9a 	into 	the 	central 	copper 	piece 	C, 	water 	channels 	are 	formed 	4 	mm
wide 	at 	their 	ends 	and 	1 	mm 	wide 	in 	the 	bent 	parts 	near 	the 	2 	mm 	diameter 	bore
as 	seen 	in 	Fig. 	9b. 	In 	this 	way 	the 	water 	entering 	from 	two 	opposite 	sides 	is
accelerated 	near 	the 	arc 	channel, 	pressed 	towards 	the 	hot 	wall, 	and 	removed
through 	the 	two 	remaining 	adjacent 	ports. 	Pieces 	A, 	B 	and 	C 	are 	silver-sol-
dered 	together 	and 	machined 	to 	the 	required 	thickness 	of 	2 	mm. 	A 	photograph
of 	an 	arc 	plate 	assembly 	with 	the 	central 	part 	cut 	open 	to 	expose 	the 	flow
channels 	is 	included 	in 	Fig. 	9c.
The 	operation 	of 	the 	arc 	requires 	substantial 	electric, 	water, 	and 	gas
utilities. 	The 	electric 	current 	to 	the 	arc 	is 	supplied 	by 	a 	1200 	V, 	110 	A 	DC
power 	source 	with 	0.05 	percent 	current 	regulation 	and 	a 	ripple 	less 	than 	0.2
percent 	of 	the 	average 	voltage. 	In 	order 	to 	divide 	the 	arc 	current 	equally, 	a
12 	Q. 	ballast 	resistor 	is 	placed 	in 	series 	with 	each 	of 	the 	four 	arc 	anodes 	and
cathodes. 	These 	resistors, 	designed 	for 	loads 	up 	to 	7.5 	kW, 	are 	immersed 	and
cooled 	in 	a 	flowing 	tap 	water 	reservoir. 	A 	separate 	12°C 	chilled 	water 	system
with 	a 	total 	flow 	rate 	of 	about 	80 	l 	min"^ 	at 	2.5 	atm 	pressure 	is 	used 	to 	cool
the 	arc 	plates 	and 	electrodes. 	Since 	arc 	ignition 	is 	best 	performed 	in 	pure
-18-
