(b) a competent authority of a Member State has granted a derogation from the applicable conformity assessment
procedure in accordance with Article 59(1) of this Regulation or has required the manufacturer, in accordance
with Article 97(1) of this Regulation, to carry out the applicable conformity assessment procedure.’;
(b) paragraph 3 is replaced by the following:
‘3. 	By way of derogation from Article 5 and provided the conditions set out in paragraph 3c of this Article are
met, devices referred to in paragraphs 3a and 3b of this Article may be placed on the market or put into service
until the dates set out in those paragraphs.
3a. 	Devices which have a certificate that was issued in accordance with Directive 90/385/EEC or
Directive 93/42/EEC and that is valid by virtue of paragraph 2 of this Article may be placed on the market or put
into service until the following dates:
(a) 31 December 2027, for all class III devices, and for class IIb implantable devices except sutures, staples, dental
fillings, dental braces, tooth crowns, screws, wedges, plates, wires, pins, clips and connectors;
(b) 31 December 2028, for class IIb devices other than those covered by point (a) of this paragraph, for class IIa
devices, and for class I devices placed on the market in sterile condition or having a measuring function.
3b. 	Devices for which the conformity assessment procedure pursuant to Directive 93/42/EEC did not require
the involvement of a notified body, for which the declaration of conformity was drawn up prior to 26 May 2021
and for which the conformity assessment procedure pursuant to this Regulation requires the involvement of a
notified body, may be placed on the market or put into service until 31 December 2028.
3c. 	Devices referred to in paragraphs 3a and 3b of this Article may be placed on the market or put into service
until the dates referred to in those paragraphs only if the following conditions are met:
(a) those devices continue to comply with Directive 90/385/EEC or Directive 93/42/EEC, as applicable;
(b) there are no significant changes in the design and intended purpose;
(c) the devices do not present an unacceptable risk to the health or safety of patients, users or other persons, or to
other aspects of the protection of public health;
(d) no later than 26 May 2024, the manufacturer has put in place a quality management system in accordance
with Article 10(9);
(e) no later than 26 May 2024, the manufacturer or the authorised representative has lodged a formal application
with a notified body in accordance with Section 4.3, first subparagraph, of Annex VII for conformity
assessment in respect of a device referred to in paragraph 3a or 3b of this Article or in respect of a device
intended to substitute that device, and, no later than 26 September 2024, the notified body and the
manufacturer have signed a written agreement in accordance with Section 4.3, second subparagraph, of
Annex VII.
3d. 	By way of derogation from paragraph 3 of this Article, the requirements of this Regulation relating to post-
market surveillance, market surveillance, vigilance, registration of economic operators and of devices shall apply to
devices referred to in paragraphs 3a and 3b of this Article in place of the corresponding requirements in
Directives 90/385/EEC and 93/42/EEC.
3e. 	Without prejudice to Chapter IV and paragraph 1 of this Article, the notified body that issued the certificate
referred to in paragraph 3a of this Article shall continue to be responsible for the appropriate surveillance in
respect of the applicable requirements relating to the devices it has certified, unless the manufacturer has agreed
with a notified body designated in accordance with Article 42 that the latter shall carry out such surveillance.
EN 	Official Journal of the European Union	20.3.2023 	L 80/27
