NIST SP 800-171r3 	Protecting Controlled Unclassified Information
May 2024
36
REFERENCES
Source Controls: IA-04, IA-04(04)
Supporting Publications: SP 800-63-3 [27]
03.05.06 	Withdrawn
Consistency with SP 800-53 [8].
03.05.07 	Password Management
a. 	Maintain a list of commonly-used, expected, or compromised passwords, and
update the list [Assignment: organization-defined frequency] and when
organizational passwords are suspected to have been compromised.
b. 	Verify that passwords are not found on the list of commonly used, expected, or
compromised passwords when users create or update passwords.
c. 	Transmit passwords only over cryptographically protected channels.
d. 	Store passwords in a cryptographically protected form.
e. 	Select a new password upon first use after account recovery.
f. 	Enforce the following composition and complexity rules for passwords:
[Assignment: organization-defined composition and complexity rules].
DISCUSSION
Password-based authentication applies to passwords used in single-factor or multi-
factor authentication. Long passwords or passphrases are preferable to shorter
passwords. Enforced composition rules provide marginal security benefits while
decreasing usability. However, organizations may choose to establish and enforce
certain rules for password generation (e.g., minimum character length) under
certain circumstances. For example, account recovery can occur when a password is
forgotten. Cryptographically protected passwords include salted one-way
cryptographic hashes of passwords. The list of commonly used, compromised, or
expected passwords includes passwords obtained from previous breach corpuses,
dictionary words, and repetitive or sequential characters. The list includes context-
specific words, such as the name of the service, username, and derivatives thereof.
Changing temporary passwords to permanent passwords immediately after system
logon ensures that the necessary strength of the authentication mechanism is
implemented at the earliest opportunity and reduces susceptibility to authenticator
compromises. Long passwords and passphrases can be used to increase the
complexity of passwords.

NIST SP 800-171r3 	Protecting Controlled Unclassified Information
May 2024
37
REFERENCES
Source Control: IA-05(01)
Supporting Publications: SP 800-63-3 [27]
03.05.08 	Withdrawn
Consistency with SP 800-53 [8].
03.05.09 	Withdrawn
Consistency with SP 800-53 [8].
03.05.10 	Withdrawn
Incorporated into 03.05.07.
03.05.11 	Authentication Feedback
Obscure feedback of authentication information during the authentication process.
DISCUSSION
Authentication feedback does not provide information that would allow
unauthorized individuals to compromise authentication mechanisms. For example,
for desktop or notebook systems with relatively large monitors, the threat may be
significant (commonly referred to as shoulder surfing). For mobile devices with small
displays, this threat may be less significant and is balanced against the increased
likelihood of input errors due to small keyboards. Therefore, the means of obscuring
authenticator feedback is selected accordingly. Obscuring feedback includes
displaying asterisks when users type passwords into input devices or displaying
feedback for a limited time before fully obscuring it.
REFERENCES
Source Control: IA-06
Supporting Publications: None
03.05.12 	Authenticator Management
a. 	Verify the identity of the individual, group, role, service, or device receiving the
authenticator as part of the initial authenticator distribution.
b. 	Establish initial authenticator content for any authenticators issued by the
organization.
