Article 9
Common specifications
1. 	Without prejudice to Article 1(2) and 17(5) and the deadline laid down in those provisions, where no harmonised
standards exist or where relevant harmonised standards are not sufficient, or where there is a need to address public
health concerns, the Commission, after having consulted the MDCG, may, by means of implementing acts, adopt
common specifications (CS) in respect of the general safety and performance requirements set out in Annex I, the
technical documentation set out in Annexes II and III, the clinical evaluation and post-market clinical follow-up set out
in Annex XIV or the requirements regarding clinical investigation set out in Annex XV. Those implementing acts shall be
adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 114(3).
2. 	Devices that are in conformity with the CS referred to in paragraph 1 shall be presumed to be in conformity with
the requirements of this Regulation covered by those CS or the relevant parts of those CS.
3. 	Manufacturers shall comply with the CS referred to in paragraph 1 unless they can duly justify that they have
adopted solutions that ensure a level of safety and performance that is at least equivalent thereto.
4. 	Notwithstanding paragraph 3, manufacturers of products listed in Annex XVI shall comply with the relevant CS
for those products.
Article 10
General obligations of manufacturers
1. 	When placing their devices on the market or putting them into service, manufacturers shall ensure that they have
been designed and manufactured in accordance with the requirements of this Regulation.
2. 	Manufacturers shall establish, document, implement and maintain a system for risk management as described in
Section 3 of Annex I.
3. 	Manufacturers shall conduct a clinical evaluation in accordance with the requirements set out in Article 61 and
Annex XIV, including a PMCF.
4. 	Manufacturers of devices other than custom-made devices shall draw up and keep up to date technical documen
tation for those devices. The technical documentation shall be such as to allow the conformity of the device with the
requirements of this Regulation to be assessed. The technical documentation shall include the elements set out in
Annexes II and III.
The Commission is empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 115 amending, in the light of
technical progress, the Annexes II and III.
5. 	Manufacturers of custom-made devices shall draw up, keep up to date and keep available for competent authorities
documentation in accordance with Section 2 of Annex XIII.
6. 	Where compliance with the applicable requirements has been demonstrated following the applicable conformity
assessment procedure, manufacturers of devices, other than custom-made or investigational devices, shall draw up an EU
declaration of conformity in accordance with Article 19, and affix the CE marking of conformity in accordance with
Article 20.
7. 	Manufacturers shall comply with the obligations relating to the UDI system referred to in Article 27 and with the
registration obligations referred to in Articles 29 and 31.
8. 	Manufacturers shall keep the technical documentation, the EU declaration of conformity and, if applicable, a copy
of any relevant certificate, including any amendments and supplements, issued in accordance with Article 56, available
for the competent authorities for a period of at least 10 years after the last device covered by the EU declaration of
conformity has been placed on the market. In the case of implantable devices, the period shall be at least 15 years after
the last device has been placed on the market.
Upon request by a competent authority, the manufacturer shall, as indicated therein, provide that technical documen
tation in its entirety or a summary thereof.
A manufacturer with a registered place of business outside the Union shall, in order to allow its authorised representative
to fulfil the tasks mentioned in Article 11(3), ensure that the authorised representative has the necessary documentation
permanently available.
5.5.2017 	L 117/23	Official Journal of the European Union	EN
